Up to this point, we have built a simple
Jamstack site, we built a contact form.
So the next thing that I wanna move into
is the idea of client-side authentication.
And so
how do we protect things in Jamstack apps?
How do we make sure that somebody's
logged in before they can see something?
So we're gonna solve that
problem by using OAuth,
and we're gonna use React as
a way of setting this up.
The principles will be the same
in whatever frontend library,
you'll just need to figure
out how the router works.
But the general approach should be
pretty similar across Angular view,
whatever you wanna use.
So to start, we are going to
move into the Dashboard folder.
And that's gonna look
a little bit like this.
It's effectively empty.
I just didn't wanna make y'all
watch me write more CSS,
so I left the CSS in there for us.
So the way that we're gonna start this
one, is we are going to make sure that we
can use it with nullified dev, because
we need to to able to write redirect.
So I'm just gonna create
a gatsby config in here.
And then I want to set
up my Netlify redirects.
So I'm gonna create a netlify.toml.
And we're also, let's see inside,
gonna set up a redirect.
So that's redirects plural inside
of double square brackets.
And we are going to redirect from
dashboard, any dashboard, and
point to just dashboard itself.
And the reason that we're doing that is
that we're about to build an app that will
have a dashboard component.
But we wanna be able to visit
different sections of our dashboard,
dashboard/accounts/buildings/ whatever.
But we wanna handle all that
through a single component.
And that's how we're gonna be
able to manage authentication.
So we're gonna have Netlify
handle that redirect for us.
So that if somebody were to type in,
like /account/dashboard, or
a /dashboard/account,
they would end up in the right place.
Instead of getting a 404, because there's
no actual file at /dashboard/account.
And the status that we're gonna send this
200, because again, this is a rewrite.
And to get us started, let's go ahead and
run that yarn init-y for
yes to set up a package JSON for us.
And inside of it, I'm going to
add gatsby react and react dom.
And we're using gatsby because we
don't wanna have to set up a bunch
of boilerplate.
We just wanna be able to get it up and
running.
So once we have gatsby react and
react dom, we can set up our first page,
which, let's start by
creating just an index page.
And that's gonna live in pagesindex.js.
So this one,
we're gonna import react from react.
We will import link from gatsby.
Link is a helper that allows
you to do local links without
fully refreshing the page.
It's just kinda a nice to have it,
it does some some background performance
optimization, like
preloading things as well.
And then we're going to export default.
And that's going to,
Be a fragment to start.
We'll send a H1, and
we'll say this app rules.
And we'll say log in to find out why.
And then we're gonna link to a dashboard,
and also, let's go to a dashboard.
Okay, so this is a basic app,
and we can actually go ahead and
start it by running that with iDev.
So let me get localhost 8888,
that's the Netlify dev port.
And this will give us
our kind of basic setup.
So the next thing that we wanna do is
let's add a little bit of a layout, so
we can apply these styles
that are prewritten.
So I'm gonna create a new
component called layout.js, and
init will import react from react.
We're going to import
link from gatsby again.
And then I'm also going to
import this layout.css.
Then I can define the layout,
component that is going to take children.
And that means that anything that we put
inside of the layout component will be
wrapped up into a children component,
so that we can stick that in there.
And then I'm going to
return a fragment again,
because we don't wanna add
a bunch of useless markup.
Set a header.
We're gonna link to the homepage, and
we'll just call this a Jamstack app.
And then we're gonna set
up a main component, and
that is going to contain our children.
And at the bottom here,
we're gonna export default layout, so
that we have access to
import that elsewhere.
So that's the full component there.
And just recapping,
we've got just a header and a main.
And then whatever we put
inside of our layout component
will show up here in
between this main tags.
So back in our page,
we can just import that way out.
And that's up in our Components folder,
Layout, and then I can use it here.
And because the styles were prewritten,
it picks all that up.
And we have just a nice simple overlay for
our Jamstack app.
When I click through to go
to the dashboard, it breaks,
because we haven't created that yet.
So let's create our dashboard page.
And we do that by just
creating dashboard.js.
And we're gonna import react from react,
we'll import that layout again.
And then we can set up
the dashboard as a component.
That doesn't need any props yet, and
it's just gonna return our layout.
And inside the layout,
we will return just a todo.
Export that as our default.
And now we should be able
to visit our dashboard.
There we go.